Now that we know how to look at
the symbology of our vector data
layers and change these to how
we want, we're going to take a
look at changing the symbology
of our raster layers.
So let's toggle off the vector
data layers and just have a look
at our two rasters, Land Cover
and elevation.
We can tell that these are
rasters because if we zoom in on
them in our map frame, we can
see that they're layers made-up
of lots of different pixels of
different colours.
So it's the same for the
elevation layer as well, we just
need to zoom in a bit further to
see the different pixels, as the
pixels in this layer are a bit
smaller.
And now we'll take a look at
changing the symbology for this
elevation layer.
So stay with the elevation layer
toggled on.
And what we're going to do is
we're going to right click on
the layer and click zoom to
layer so we can see the full
extent of the elevation raster.
And now looking in our layers
list, we can see that for this
layer we have a black box for
zero and a white box for 1386.
So this is a continuous raster
layer as we have elevation going
from zero to 1386 meters and so
each pixel is representing a
value within this range.
This means that white is
representing the highest
elevation in our landscape which
is 1386 meters, and black is
representing the lowest 0
meters.
So all the elevation heights we
have in our landscape are being
represented on a scale of black
to white.
Now let's open up the symbology
tab just by double clicking on
our layer.
So the symbology tab for raster
layers looks slightly different
in the top drop down box though
we can still choose the type of
symbology that we want to
represent our layer and at the
moment we have a single band
grey.
This is what's giving our black
to white colour ramp.
Let's change this to single band
pseudo colour to have more
colour options.
So now to change the colour we
can go into the colour ramp drop
down box and we can see we have
some colour options here.
But we're going to hover over
all colour ramps to get even
more options and then we're
going to click on BRBG.
And now if we hit apply this is
going to apply this colour ramp
to our layer.
And actually this has given us
the inverse of what we want
because we want the bluey colour
to be the lowest elevation and
the Orangey brown to be the
highest.
So to change it we're going to
click on the drop down box in
the colour ramp section and
click on Invert Colour ramp and
hit apply and there we go,
that's what we want.
So now we have a symbology
that's representing elevation
much better and it's a lot more
clear what this rattle layer is
representing.
So now we're going to take a
look at our land cover layer so
we can toggle off the elevation
and turn on land cover.
And this land cover layer is a
discrete raster.
And that's because we have 9
categories of different land
cover types.
And so each pixel is
representing one of these
discrete categories.
So let's go into the symbology
window again by double clicking
and going into the symbology
tab.
We need to go in this render
type drop down box again.
So at the moment we have a
single band Gray symbology, but
this isn't representing our
discrete raster very well so
we're going to change this to
unique values.
We can leave our colour ramp as
random colours as we're going to
choose which colours we want for
each pixel category.
And now we're going to click on
the plus button here to add some
pixel categories.
So we're going to click 9 times
to add our nine different land
cover types so you can see them
here.
And now we can start changing
each color to represent what
land cover type it is.
So for the first category 0,
this is representing where
there's no data.
So we can change the color to be
no color just by double clicking
on the color and we'll just
change the opacity to 0% and
click OK.
And so now we've got a
completely transparent colour
and in label we can change this
by double clicking and we'll
change it to say no data.
We'll hit apply and OK.
And now if we look back in our
layers list and just open up the
arrow to see our land cover
symbology, we can see that the
first category is No Colour and
it's got a label to tell us that
this is representing where
there's no data.
Now have a go at changing the
rest of the pixel colours and
labels.
All the information that you're
going to need will be below this
video.